This chapter is gonna cover all of the
topics needed for developing our header,
let's take a look at
the history of CSS layouts.
So back in the day when website
designs became more complicated,
we started seeing the table element being
used to layout elements on webpage.
So if you were to get a design like the
one on the right with a page header and
then you got sidebar and
mean side by side, and then a page footer,
it was pretty common to see the table
element being used for this.
So they would use table header
to represent the page header and
table body to represent sidebar and main.
And it would have two table cells there
and table footer for page footer.
And that's why you might see table
with role= presentation in more
legacy codebases.
So this is telling assistive technology,
like screen readers, hey,
this is not actually a data table,
this is just being used to lay
out components on this web page.
But this was not great for
assistive technology because they weren't
necessarily sure what was actually a data
table and what was just being used for
presentation.
So that's what this role of
presentation was aiming to do,
was to tell screen reader, hey,
you don't need to read this out.
And then we saw the display property.
So this allowed us to change the display
value of an element from inline or
block to inline block, for example,
which we'll learn about, right?
So if we had three navigation links in
these blocks and let's say we wanted
them to sit together, well,
list items by default are block elements.
And so you were seeing people set display
inline block and this said, okay,
well these are block elements but
I want them to be in line with each other.
But then the problem was like, okay, how
do we get these three elements to sit one
next to each other so
there's not that white space in between.
And you would see things like margin,
right, -4 pixels.
So this wasn't a great solution,
but it was a solution.
And then came floats, well, this worked
a little bit better than display inline
block, but half the time floats didn't
work and nobody could figure out why.
Float's a property that places
the element to the right side or
the left side of its container, and it
just lets other elements wrap around it.
But it actually does remove that
element from the normal page flow.
So here's an example.
We've got an image here and
we've told it to float left.
So float to the left
side of its container.
We can see all those paragraphs
are floating around it, they wrap around.
But sometimes if the containing element
was smaller, so you can see here on our
dip we've set a height of 160 pixels,
but the image, it's taller than that,
has a higher width, or I'm sorry,
a taller height than 160 pixels.
So it's floating outside
the bounds of its container.
So positioning elements with
floats is pretty tricky, and
we're not gonna cover exactly
how to work with floats,
it's a little bit outdated at this point,
but this was one solution.